doc: committer onboarding - init (#47)
uPortal-Project/uportal-project.github.io: manuals/en/uportal5-manual/developer/committer-onboarding.md

# Onboarding a uPortal Committer

uPortal Committers have three privileges over other contributors.

1. Participate in Committer votes regarding uPortal projects.
2. Review, approve and merge pull requests for uPortal project repos.
3. Cut releases of uPortal projects.

> ## 1. Committer Voting
> Committers should have already joined the uPortal Dev mailing list and been actively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Committer Voting

Committers should have already joined the uPortal Dev mailing list and been actively
```

participating. This mailing list is where we currently call for voting.

> - uportal-dev@apereo.org

Reviewer: Do we have a document on how to join the mailing list somewhere?
How to login to https://groups.google.com/a/apereo.org/g/uportal-dev and sign up.
Would we want to link to that here?

Author: Yes, this would be nice but out of scope for this document. The audience is a new committer and someone that is helping to grant them access. Definitely need this for our community onboarding though.

> ## 2. Managing Pull Requests
> Committers help maintain the quality of the uPortal ecosystem by reviewing and approving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Managing Pull Requests

Committers help maintain the quality of the uPortal ecosystem by reviewing and approving
```

pull requests in the various uPortal related repos in GitHub. We have organized them into
three organizations:

1. https://github.com/orgs/uPortal-Project
2. https://github.com/orgs/uPortal-Contrib
3. https://github.com/orgs/uPortal-attic

Each organization should have an existing `uPortal Committers` Team for active
committers. New committers should be added to these teams.

> In general, PRs should be reviewed, approved and merged by committers other than the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, PRs should be reviewed, approved, and merged by committers other than the
```

author. A single committer does not need to perform all of these steps.

> ## 3. Cutting uPortal-Related Project Releases
> The third privilege is cutting releases uPortal, portlet and other projects. We currently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Cutting uPortal-Related Project Releases

The third privilege is cutting releases uPortal, portlet and other projects. We currently
```

> rely on Maven Central to host our official releases, although we do require NPM ???
> for web components before they are rolling into a webjar that rests in Maven Central.

Reviewer: Context on this.
`npm` is the de-facto registry of JavaScript and by extension web components.
We do have some adopters who don't leverage the UI provided in uPortal start, but can/do still leverage some of the web components. They access the components directly from `npm`.
For adopters using uPortal-start's default UI and want to manage all dependencies though Gradle/Maven-Central we mirror the `npm` packages as WebJars.

```suggestion
rely on Maven Central to host our official Java releases.
And `npm` for JavaScript releases, the `npm` releases are also mirrored on Maven Central as [WebJars](https://www.webjars.org) for convenience.
```

There isn't really a standard (that I am aware of) for including and sharing JavaScript code through Maven Central.
WebJars seems to be the closest thing to being a standard.

> ### 3.1. Sonatype Set Up
> We release through the OSS support provided freely from Sonatype. This requires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.1. Sonatype Set Up

We release through the OSS support provided freely from Sonatype. This requires
```

that committers obtain an account with Sonatype's service and that an existing committer
request the new committer have rights to make releases.

New committers should create an account:
- https://issues.sonatype.org/secure/Signup!default.jspa
- ... and send their username to the committer granting them access

Existing committers (that are "publishers" in Sonatype) can then request publish
permissions for the new committer:
- https://central.sonatype.org/publish/manage-permissions/
    - Project: Community Support - Open Source Project Repository Hosting (OSSRH)
    - Type: Publishing Support
    - Summary: Grant <committer's login> access to org.jasig
    - Description: Please grant user <committer's login> access to push releases to groupId org.jasig
    - Group Id: org.jasig
    - Published Hostname: oss.sonatype.org
    - Username(s): <committer's login>
    - Modify publishing permissions?: yes

> ### 3.2 NPM Set Up
> We also need to release our web components to NPM before they can be rolled into
> webjars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.2 NPM Set Up

Web components are released to to NPM, the mirrored to Maven Central as
webjars.
```

> New committers should create an account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New committers should create an npm account:
```
